Gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD,
is a digestive condition that affects
a muscle between the end of
your esophagus and stomach.
If you have GERD, this muscle,
called the lower esophageal sphincter,
or LES, doesn’t close like it should
and allows stomach acid to leak
back into your esophagus.
This causes symptoms like
heartburn, chest pain, and nausea.
Anti-reflux surgery is used to treat
GERD when medicines aren’t
successful in relieving symptoms.
The goal of anti-reflux surgery
is to restore the normal function
of the lower esophageal sphincter.
Before surgery, follow your doctor’s directions
for eating, drinking and taking medicine.
During surgery, you will have general anesthesia,
so you will be asleep, and pain-free.
Your surgeon will wrap the
top portion of your stomach
around the lowest part of your esophagus
and stitch it in place.
This tightens the end of the esophagus,
and helps prevent stomach acid
from leaking back into it.
After surgery, you will stay in a
recovery room until you are fully awake.
Talk with your doctor to determine
whether surgery is a good option for you.